Draft World Bank Open Data Checklist		
		
		"Unless Bank data are disclosable under the Access to Information Policy, and have a clear unit and individual point of contact/owner, they cannot be included in the Open Data Initiative."
		Access to Information Policy
1.0		Are the data disclosable under the Access to Information Policy (A2I)?
1.1		"Are the data excluded from the ""Personal Information"" A2I exception?"
1.2		"Are the data excluded from the ""ED Communication"" A2I exception?"
1.3		"Are the data excluded from the ""Board Ethics Committee"" A2I exception?"
1.4		"Are the data excluded from the ""Attorney-Client Privilege"" A2I exception?"
1.5		"Are the data excluded from the ""Security & Safety"" A2I exception?"
1.6		"Are the data excluded from the ""Other Disclosure Regimes"" A2I exception?"
1.7		"Are the data excluded from the ""Client/Third Party"" A2I exception?"
1.8		"Are the data excluded from the ""Corporate Administrative"" A2I exception?"
1.9		"Are the data excluded from the ""Deliberative"" A2I exception?"
1.1		"Are the data excluded from the ""Financial"" A2I exception?"
1.11		"Are the data clearly ""owned"" by a Bank unit and individual staff member?"
		
		"Open Data requires an ongoing time commitment: at a minimum, ensuring data and metadata are up to date, basic coordination with similar data producers, and answering user queries."
		Data and Metadata Management
2.0		Have you checked for similar datasets the Bank already releases?
2.1		"If there are similar datasets produced by the Bank, are they all clearly differentiated?"
2.1		Do you have resources to maintain and update the data and metadata once opened?
2.2		Do you have resources to answer questions from users working with your data?
2.3		Is there basic metadata associated with the data?
2.4		Are the primary sources of the data clearly documented and linked back to?
2.5		Are the methodologies behind any data processing documented?
2.6		"Is there a ""changelog"" of data updates maintained and published?"
2.7		Are any map boundaries in or referenced by the dataset? Cartographer's office?
		
		"For data and metadata to be technically open, it needs to be available at a minimum, in an editable, electronic format and presented in a usable, well documented structure."
		Open Data: Technically Open
3.0		"Is the data available in an editable, standard electronic format? "
3.1		Is the data available for bulk download in a single file?
3.2		Is the data available via a documented API?
3.3		Is the data available at a stable URL?
		
		"For data and metadata to be legally open, it needs to be licensed under the Bank's Open Data Terms of use: free for commercial and non-commercial use, requiring attribution"
		Open Data: Legally Open
4.0		Does the World Bank have the rights to distribute the data?
4.1		Are the data already covered by an existing terms of use or license? 
4.2		"If it is a large dataset, are all parts and versions of it licensed uniformly?"
4.3		Do we require permission from an external data owner or provider? 
4.5		Can the data be released under the Open Data Terms of Use?
		
		"Users value the quality and usability of World Bank data and while these may vary between datasets, we expect a basic level of usability and quality, along with documentation."
		Data Quality & Usability
5.0		Is there a quality process associated with this data and is it published?
5.1		Is there sufficient documentation with the data for a totally new user?
5.2		"Has the data been ""test released"" to a group of new users for feedback?"
5.3		Are the data structured for use and analysis rather then presentation?
5.4		Are the data considered accurate from the Bank's perspective? 
5.5		Are the data fairly complete & with good coverage? Documented if not?
5.6		"Are the data current, relevant and have a planned update schedule?"
5.7		Are all field and variable names meaningful and documented?
5.8		Are all numbers/values consistently presented? (e.g. to same accuracy or convention)
5.9		Are all missing values presented meaningfully / consistently (e.g. with a -)
		
		"Engaging with users is a key part of open data - without context, documentation, examples and support it can be difficult for even an experienced user to take advantage of  data"
		Engagement
6.0		Is there a clear public point of contact for the data being published?
6.1		"Are there a few examples of the data being used in context? Graphs, charts, tables etc."
6.2		Is there an ongoing communications plan for this data?
6.3		Is it possible for users to provide feedback / comments on the data and get a response?
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
